Interviewer want to evaluate everyting from you: knowledge/skill/experience, motivation, personal qualities

Attitude:
 Smile and keep eye contact with the interviewer
 Show interest in the company and encourage the interviewer to tell you about it
 Be positive and show enthuasm
 show your knowledge
 don't just say yes/no
 don't try to make things up. if there is nothing to say, then say no and give interviewer to proceed. English is not my mother language.
 "do you have experience in improving process? or customer?" then if there is no experience then say "no I don't".
 I think trying to make up a story in English make interviewer confused about me.

YOU SHOULD PREPARE COMPUTER AND NOTE/PEN.
You can use python for just simple computation.

 resume: you need to explain your resume, what you did, what is your previous experience. Just explain, do not make up. 

*** read the red signal: if an interviewer askes same question twice, that is red
signal. ex: what is the data structure for this (optiver), do you have any question? (facebook)

Questions:

1. Tell me about yourself
 
 - name: job:software engineer, living in Sydney. I was born in Korea, and graduated Korea University, earned Bacheler/MS/Ph.D
 all from CS. I have started working for Samsung from Sep 2002, stayed there until I left for Australia in May 2010. And worked for OKL, specializing in the operatin system kernel and virtualization. From Jun 2013 till now, I am with ResMed.


2. Why you quit your previous job?

2.Resmed

Resmed is a manufacturer of sleep devices for treating sleep apnea with nasal air supply. 
As it belongs to the medical business, it focuses heavily on testing
and I learned many new ideas such as test-driven development, scrum, testing framework (such as google mock and python behave).
But the device is very small (such as, no OS), so it is a bit boaring, and I am still hungry for the new challenge.
And I like to have an experience in the domain of distributed system and 
cloud system, So I long been hopeing to work for the company like yours.

Tell me more about what you are doing in ResMed:
I am involved in implementing software for the sleep device. The sleep device is for treating sleep apnea with nasal air supply. It is similar to respirator.
It has two hardware moduls, FG and CAM. FG is the main provides therapy, and CAM provides patient information to the cloud,
and interact with cloud for the therapy or analysis purpose. I am involved in implementing CAM software.
We used web interface to access cloud, such as HTTP GET/POST/PUT method.

The command from the server is about how to collect patient information, which information to collect, when to collect, etc. The command
also includes upgrade firmware, or upload log message in the system for analysis of the system itself.

from low-level up to application level.

So far, the most proud of project was mobile virtualization of Android smartphone in OK labs.

2.OKL
 - OKL was a good company with good software development cycle, and one of the leader in mobile virtualization.
 - it was too far from my home, one way is 1:30, sometimes 2 hrs.
 - I cound't use my full potential. I was supposed to do the same thing more than, like, 2 years.
 - for example, omap4 -> lg smart phone -> samsung tablet
 - it was good : family, good with childern and wife, doing exercise and meet old friends, etc.
 - how about the dark side? yes it have dark side as well. Some of my friends was 

2.1 Why do you left Samsung?
 - Probably I would be still with Samsung if I didn't moved to Australia. 

2.2 Why do you left Korea? Why do you come to Australia?
- I traveled australia before with my family, visited Sudney and Melbourn. after that we thought about living
in australia. very good environment, public welfare, and education. 

2.3 Why do you choosed our company (also in 2.9)
  
ResMed: 

 matches my qualification, ResMed is a leader in sleep disorder medical domain seems very interesting for me
as I also had similar problem before, my father also have. I heard from my friends that he learned new technology I think I can learn much nut just embedded system area but also 
medical area. I heard from my friends that environment is very nice, like a university campus, and soccer every week,
that sounds like fantastic for me.

Facebook: I am still young, still hungry, and want to learn more and use my full potential.(so if I have a change, I am ready to take a plunge). Facebook is a leading software company, people there are all world-class, and I heard that company treats its employee very generously. So, why not. 

2.4 What kind of company do you like?

 - good technology and interesting work
 - people I work with is good team mate
 - I heard that balanced life at work and life at home

2.5 tell me about what you did for performance optimization
 opeformance optimization was always part of my job.
 - JVM: memory db, graphics algorithm optimization, gc
 - multicore: instruction scheduling, cache, bandwidth
 - OKL: TLB lockdown, super page

2.6 tell me about the hardest bugs or problems you came across?

 - stack broken
 - malloc
 - cache driver (cache API)
 - hardware related debugging, 2012 interrupt does not work because it was not properly initialized. 

2.7 linux experience
 - device driver, 

2.8 what makes you different from others?
http://www.interview-coach.co.uk/what-makes-you-different-from-other-candidates/
focus my strenth. 

2.9 Here is your opportunity to tell us about what makes you different, your major achievements, what are you most proud of. Also what is it that you can bring to the Company to make a difference?

>>I have experienced almost all aspects of software development from the low level of operating system kernel, software platform (c++ native platform and Java) and application framework (libraries), toolchains, and QA software. And I have Ph. D degree in CS, published a number research papers in top conferences from ACM and IEEE. The experiences from academia and industry allows me very strong problem analysis and solving
skills, as well as an ability to learn new technology very quickly. And I love to learn new technology. I am sure that my ability, skills, and passion for the new technology will bring to Atlassian with more energy to grow.  


My biggest achievement.. seems to be two things. The first thing is my work at OKL, and the other is Ph.D. For a very long time, I wanted to go into OS kernel and understand how OS and hw works in the low level. This is the reason why I choosed to work for OK Labs, and I think I achieved the goal I wanted.  In the last project at OKL, I technically leaded the virtualization of LG Android smartphone with the help of architect. It was the first Android smartphone with OKL4 hypervisor. I leaded technically in porting OKL4 hypervisor on LG smartphone, porting and initial bringup of Android, and taught LG engineers to do their bit. But as I look back more, there are a number of achievements including my first mobile phone product in Samsung, and  ph. D degree. And I am not sure which one is the biggest achievement, perhaps the biggest achivement was yet to come.

What I am most proud of..?  same as above...

What makes you different? hm.. 

And what is it that you can bring to the company to make a difference?

2.10 What is virtualisation?

refers to a technology of creating virtual machine that acts like a real machine on which operating systems such as linux or 
windows can run. Hypervsor is a software that creates virtual machiens on real hardware. OKL4 hypervisor is a virtualization
technique from Open Kernel Labs. Its design is based on microkernel design principle. So it provides minimal support for the
virtualization such as CPU, memory, timer, serial, and put everything else such as device deriver support as a service on top
hypervisor. 

2.11 What is high-assurance framework?

This project was from NSA, that is highest intelligence agency of the USA,
for providing secure framework for mobile devices such as smartphone and 
tablets.

For example, the virtualization technologies allows 2 operating systems
on a smartphone, one for business and the other for personal use. This simple
separation of domains can provide a level of security by restricting access from
one domain to the other. ( how/when to switch from one domain to is different issue,
can be determined by the policy of their users). High assurance framwork aims to 
provide more level of security, by separating software components in virtualization.
The framework focused on the device driver, as in the modern computer architecture, 
many devices in the system bus can access memory when the device became bus master and 
do DMA. That means, if the device is rooted, then information stored in a computer 
can be read or written by a rooted device. By iolating each device drivers in the virtualization 
and allows each device to access memory area they really needed, the high assurance framework can 
provide more security then other simple virtualization technology. We isolated block, audio, wifi
devics from the rest of the virtualizatio system. Other isolation was going on when I was in OK-Labs.

The theory is relatively simple, but it requires lots of engineering efforts, like a debugging
to make it stable with separated device drivers.

3. Describe your previous job (what you learned, most interesting, achievement, 
   	    hardest bug, enjoyed most, team work)

 - OKL: SDLC (Jira ticket, code review process, unit/system test QA, daily standup meeting, 3 weeks sprint),
 - how do you manage your previous project? 
 - how your employer described you? A/A Samsung, good record in OKL/VP of eng told me to come back.

4. Describe your school and Ph.D thesis
 
 - My research interest at the graduate school was how the issues in the SE can be fixed using programming language research.
 And the Ph.D study was focused on the performance optimization aspect. 

5. Describe your previous projects (most challenging, what you learned,
   	    most interesting, hardest bug, enjoyed most, conflicts with teammates)

 - (for 10gen): In the previous project in virtualizing LG smart phone, I have worked with LG
 to teach and lead them to learning OKL4 virtulization. And I have stayed several times at Korea to
 work with them. I think this experience seems to be similar with Technical support engineer at 10 gen.
 - virtualization:
   : virtualization working on the real smart phone, I started it and technically leaded the project.
   : supported device driver in the virtualized linux (driver server and client), implemented virtualized driver
   ; Android bringup,smp (fake local timer) 
   : learned linux kernel, driver, Android, 
 - microkernel
 - multicore solutions
 - mobile software platform
 - Java

6. what is your weakness?

 - sometimes I tend to make my work too perfect, that may be unnecessary and waste of time
   . So I usually chat with team lead or collegues
whether I am on the correct path or not.

 - what is strength? quick learner, adaptability, work under pressure, team work, work hard, initiative, independent, reliable, 
 - do you line team work or alone? do you like to work with others?
 - if there is a hard work with tight deadline, how did you do to meet the the deadline?
 : I am good at both but I think I like more with work with others. It is more interesting with work with others. ...

7. What do you know about this position?

 - why do you want to work for this position? what do you want (looking for) in this position?
 : to expand my knowledge, learn new skills, meet good collegues and friends, would like to contribute to the growth of the company
 - what do you think the challenges of this position?
 - describe your next role? your career goal, which env you wich to work?
 
8. What is your plan for the future?


9. When you argued with your friends, how did you fix it?

 I argued a bit long before, but these days I do not have chance to argue. But if I have to, I 
tried my best not to aggressive and not to emotional, but with strong opinion. If the other's object my opinion, 
tried not to emotional. If the other's opinion is good then ready to accept that.


100. Asking questions

 - how many different kind of engineers in the company?
 - (google.com) what difference between goole.com engineer and software engineer?
 - (google.com) I know a bit of administrating Linux but it was just a hobby. Do you want experienced administrator for the Linux?
   Perfrmance tunning of Linux?
 - which programming languages are usually used in the company?
 - when can I expect the result? Are there something I have to prepare?
 - could you tell me your company culture? 




-----------------------------------------------------------

Appendix:

A. How to answer "tell me about yourself" question 

At least once, every job seeker dreads the seemingly innocuous interview question, “So, tell me about yourself.” A standard in the interviewer’s arsenal, this open-ended classic can be scary.

However, just like any other interview question, if you are prepared and practice, it can be a no-brainer.

Start with your name: A no-brainer, many job seekers panic right off the bat by incorrectly assuming the interviewer asked a loaded question. In reality, the interviewer just wants to see how well you can sell yourself. Just state your name and feel free to include a line or two about your passions and hobbies – but don’t overdo it. You need to pace yourself and save precious monologue time for significant details regarding your career. Your total answer should be short and complete.

Follow up with your background: You should include a brief history of your education and experience. Think bullet points and hard facts – don’t waste time on inconsequential details. In terms of goals and aspirations, mention where you came from, where you are currently and where you want to be. Don’t be surprised if the interviewer starts taking notes while you talk. This is a good sign and means the interviewer is engaged and actively listening. They may refer to these notes and ask questions regarding your statements after you finish talking, so make sure you are honest and that all of your facts line up.

Relate it to the position: This is where the interviewer will know if you’ve done your homework or not. Your goal is to recount specific projects and achievements that are relevant to the position you’re applying for and mix them in with in your background history. You’ll want to research the company beforehand and focus on key requirements of the job description. You need to imply that you are the solution to their staffing need.

Turn the question on them: Don’t be afraid to ask the interviewer questions. If you say, “I’m originally from Boston,” follow it up with “Have you been there before?” If you state “I worked on a consumer marketing project,” follow it up with “Does your firm tend to focus on B2B or B2C marketing projects?” These examples probably don’t fit you, but the point is that you have to engage with the interviewer, not just rattle off points. It’s a conversation.

Avoid overexposure: Less is more. Get in and get out. The same rules apply to this age old question. If you sit there babbling on and talking your interviewers ear off with your life story you’re ultimately going to leave a bad impression. Smile, keep a positive and excited tone during your abridged, micro-autobiography and let the rest of the interview commence. You’ll have time to ask your own questions at various intervals throughout the process. Good luck!



References: 

1. http://www.job-interview-site.com/tell-me-about-yourself-interview-questions-and-answers.html
2. http://www.recruiter.com/i/tell-me-about-yourself-tips-to-answer-this-tough-interview-question/
3. http://fiveoclockclub.com/2010/04/answering-the-question-so-tell-me-about-yourself-with-your-two-minute-pitch/
4. http://careers.unc.edu/blogs/career-blog/mastering-tell-me-about-yourself-interview-question.html
